this is the 12th and final Dennis Sharma
lecture
series and first let me
um thank the Sharma family
um also's college and the physics
department for having sponsored this of
the
last few years I thought I'd just read
to you that the names of the amazingly
illustrious speakers have had in the
past
um
Roger Penrose
George Ellis Stephen Hawking
Julian Barber
John Barrow Mary cam bremovitz
Kip Thorne Martin Reese
Tim Palmer James Binney
Philip candles and today it's a great
pleasure to have David Deutsch and I'm
going to invite Philip candles to
introduce David
foreign
so
David Deutsch
did his degrees at Cambridge where he
read Natural Sciences and then did part
three and then he came to Oxford where
he came to work with Dennis Sharma
he wrote a thesis on Quantum field
Theory and curved space time but I
remember it was mostly to do with
acceleration in flat space time and also
on on the Casmir energy
but even before finishing his thesis
David went to Austin to the University
of Texas at Austin on what can best be
described as a Year's predoc and there
he talked with John Wheeler
and this led to a series of visits over
a number of years where each year David
would come for a turn
and during this time David became
interested in foundational issues of
quantum mechanics
and this I must tell you what must I
count as as probably my greatest mistake
which is that one day riding the
elevator with Stephen Weinberg in one of
these terms where David wasn't there
Steve turned to me and he said
where's this fellow David Deutsch
and I said
I think he's gone off trying to
understand the foundations
so Steve looked at me and we both
sighed and we thought that David had
gone down a dark road that others had
trodden before and been lost to science
how wrong we were
David has since been elected to the
Royal Society and I won't try and
improve on the citation the citation
says David Deutsch laid the foundations
of the quantum theory of computation and
subsequently made or participated in
many of the most important advances in
this field
including the discovery of the first
Quantum algorithms
the theory of quantum logic gates and
Quantum computational Networks
the first error Corrections the first
Quantum error correction scheme and
several Quantum universality results
he has set the agenda for worldwide
research efforts in this new
interdisciplinary field made progress in
understanding the philosophical
implications via variant of the many
universes interpretation and made it
comprehensible to the general public
notably in his book on the fabric of
reality
David has since published a second book
the beginning of infinity explanations
that transformed the world
he was awarded the Dirac Medal Of The
Institute of physics in 1998
the international award on Quantum
Communication in 2002
The Edge computational science prize in
2005.
David is currently a visiting Professor
here in Oxford
and he is also working on Constructor
Theory this is an attempt to generalize
the theory of quantum computation to
cover not just computation but all
physical processes this will in part be
the subject of today's talk
thank you
foreign
ful to the organizers and and to the
Sharma family
for giving me this opportunity to honor
Dennis sharma's memory
he was my boss when I was a graduate
student and later as a postdoc here in
Oxford
he was in charge of theoretical
astrophysics and astronomy which is a
branch of physics that is unusually
close to all the fundamental laws of
physics general relativity nuclear and
elementary particle physics
thermodynamics foundations of quantum
theory
of course fundamental physics in any
conception
in any branch is about universal laws
but research in astrophysics and
cosmology
explaining a single phenomenon can
involve several or all the fundamental
laws
perhaps the first problem in physics
that human beings ever tried to solve
out of sheer curiosity
namely the appearance of the night sky
why does it look as it does
it's remarkable that even the crudest
true explanation of that
already requires all the fundamental
laws we know today to to explain the
basic fact that it's black and not white
requires general relativity
the colors of the Stars
thermodynamics why they don't go out
nuclear physics and the Aurora and
thunder and lightning many other
phenomena electricity and magnetism
this
Confluence of fundamental laws in
astrophysics and cosmology is a hint
that there might be a type of unity in
nature that's deeper than the mere fact
that there are universal laws
namely that there might be a level of
explanation of those laws
I first encountered that idea from
Dennis but long before I even met him
because when I was in school I'd read
his popular book the unity of the
universe
here it is this isn't the original copy
I read then that was a library copy
um so and I thought I borrowed its title
for this talk
[Music]
now the subtitle man's evolving view of
the cosmos from ancient Greece to Mount
Palomar
yeah but I wasn't really all that
interested in the history of cosmology
but I did love the book
and a few years later still before I'd
met Dennis I read it again
and I was amazed to find
that it contained among other things
a powerful advocacy of a false Theory
the steady state Theory that's the
cosmological theory under which the
universe is eternal has always existed
will always exist in its present State
on the cosmological scale
in that theory
I knew had been comprehensively refuted
by observations long before I read the
book
but
I hadn't even noticed that the steady
state theory was in the book
in other words what was in a sense the
main thesis of this book had entirely
passed me by when I read it
and that was because
it wasn't the main thesis
the real theme of this book
was what the title says the unity of the
universe
and that Unity
as I said
wasn't just this
would say State Theory wasn't just this
it was
this
a unifying principle
that would explain something about not
everything but something about why the
laws of nature are as they are
the principle in question in the book
was a very natural guess for a
cosmologist to make
they called it the perfect cosmological
principle
it said simply that the Universe on a on
cosmological scales is homogeneous in
time
that just that sounded good because
there was already a
an ordinary cosmological principle that
said it's homogeneous in space
and that that one is true as far as as
far as we still know
um
would you say a word about principle
physics terminology isn't actually
standardized
uh in regard to which laws of nature we
call principles and which we just call
laws
I'm using the term principle
specifically to mean a universal law
about universal laws
so the perfect cosmological principle it
placed a constraint on the other laws of
physics it didn't fully explain them
but
it would have
placed constraints on
um
all the other laws of physics as they
were then known so that for example
there could be the creation of matter
out of nothing so that the density of
the universe could remain constant even
though it's expanding
and the total entropy could remain
constant even though stars were burning
their fuel and so on
now
despite being totally false
this principle has some desirable
features that make the steady state
Theory a good theory intrinsically
and the first of these of course most
famously is that this principle made the
theory highly falsifiable
to conform to it
the laws of motion and the various
parameters constants of nature had to be
just so to make it
uh
good night don't write
um
so the the all the constants of nature
would have to be exactly right to make
it happen that things like you know
galaxies swirling through the through
the intergalactic gas would
cause density variations which would uh
just result in the form in the later in
the formation of fresh galaxies of just
the right size and type containing stars
of just the right composition and so on
to reproduce maybe a billion years later
or something the the all the statistics
that have existed forever
which makes the principle itself hard to
vary
which makes it an intrinsically good
explanation and one consequence of that
was that it was strongly falsifiable by
observation and indeed it was duly
falsified
for instance
um
by cosmological standards light actually
travels very slowly
so that when we look out at something
very far away
we're actually seeing how it was in a
distant past so if the universe is
homogeneous in space and time
then very distant Vistas on the universe
should look very much like the universe
looks here
or nearby here and so astronomers looked
and it didn't look the same
and then there was the famous discovery
of microwaves pervading space and
microwaves don't last in an expanding
Universe they get redder and redder
rather like the Doppler effect and so to
maintain a steady state
have to be replenished and to fix that
up
required ad hoc modifications so nasty
that it made the theory a bad
explanation after all especially as its
rival The Big Bang Theory did have an
elegant and hard to vary explanation for
the microwaves
now
I should say I'm drawing a distinction
here between
a true explanation which means
objectively corresponding to reality
and being a an intrinsically good
explanation
which is a transient property depending
on the state of other knowledge at the
time it's the property as I said of
being hard to vary while still
accounting for the
uh for the things it purports to explain
The Big Bang Theory in the steady state
Theory
um
The Big Bang Theory in the steady state
Theory were both very good explanations
because they were both severely
constrained by other good explanations
and by evidence
one of the two was false
which is why Dennis went to work on the
other
but
that idea this idea
that there are Universal principles
which at least partially explain the
universal laws which in turn explain the
phenomena
was not overturned by the observations
only the particular principle that had
as it were auditioned for that role
the perfect cosmological principle that
had been overturned
now the second nice thing about the
steady state Theory
was the way in which it dealt with the
initial conditions
of the universe now this may seem like a
technicality but it isn't it's quite
fundamental conceptually
you see
ever since the time of Galileo and
Newton
the prevailing conception of how
theories are supposed to explain the
world
is that they provide laws of motion
which given the state of the world at
any one time predict or retrodict it at
any other time
or its probability at any other time but
never mind that
the awkward fact is
that while we have superb theories about
what the laws of motion are
we have never had a successful Theory
specifying the initial conditions
and it's awkward because in the
prevailing conception
the state of the universe what actually
happens
at all times and at any time is the very
thing that science sets out to explain
so it's at least as fundamental as the
laws of motion
we would like to explain it
in the classic Big Bang Theory the
initial conditions were that the state
of the universe was spatially
homogeneous across an initial
Singularity that was causally extended
even though it was zero in size
but that couldn't be exactly right
because if that were the exact initial
State then nothing would ever happen
what starts exactly homogeneous stay is
exactly homogeneous under the laws of
motion
so there were various ideas
maybe Quantum fluctuations
spontaneously break the symmetry
but there was never actually a viable
theory that predicted the details of the
homage inhomogeneity such as
would lead to Galaxy formation and the
things we observe
Roger Penrose had the elegant idea that
the vile curvature is zero at the
beginning of the universe and maximum at
the end
but that doesn't seem to have been
fruitful either and today's prevailing
Theory which is called inflationary
cosmology
is actually worse in that respect
because it doesn't even address initial
conditions
um
that doesn't mean that inflation didn't
happen it just means that it doesn't
by itself solve the explanatory problem
about the initial conditions that it was
intended I think to solve
um you could always fudge these type of
initial condition questions by resorting
to the anthropic principle namely that
there are lots of universities with all
possible initial conditions and that
we're in one of the few in which
astrophysicists exist to ask what the
initial conditions were
but if that were the only thing
explaining the initial conditions it
would predict
that it's overwhelmingly likely that
we're living in a bubble
of order
which is going to be snuffed out
nanoseconds from now
and so it's refuted
but there's another niggling problem or
I could say extremely fundamental
problems depending on your outlook with
the initial States
being one of the
one of the basic explanatory ideas from
which other explanations are to be
derived
there's no reason for anything in
anything else that we know about physics
that singles out the initial conditions
as being as being preferred
and all instants are are also
predictively equal
in fact
the idea that the initial conditions are
are special in the scheme of things
has uncomfortable Echoes of a
pre-scientific conception of what the
physical world even is
see there's there's a moment of creation
before which the physical Universe
didn't exist
then
the initial conditions are set
by something
and then beautiful laws come into
operation from which everything that
subsequently happens
emerges
no wonder
some people took the Big Bang Theory as
vindicating creationism
while other people for the same reason
didn't want the Big Bang Theory to be
true
well
the steady state Theory would have
elegantly solved all those problems at
once
though it doesn't contradict the
prevailing conception
it does radically augment it
the state of the universe would now be
deduced at least in principle
not from conditions at any preferred
time but from the perfect cosmological
principle itself
since they'd also be the conditions that
every other time no instant would be
preferred
and symmetry would not be broken
and even the size and character
of the deviations from homogeneity would
have been determined by the principle
nice isn't it
but not true
as it turned out
which
brings me to the third inherently nice
thing about the steady state Theory
the perfect cosmological principle
introduces a new mode of explanation
into physics which which supplements the
um the prevailing conception
it doesn't only relegate the initial
conditions to being a a mere consequence
rather than fundamental rather than
fundamental principles it also requires
that the laws of physics be fine-tuned
to make a particular thing happen
namely the steadiness of the steady
state
and in fact that makes it much more
fine-tuned than you might think because
well the steady state people were aware
that their Theory wouldn't work if the
process that reproduced the state over
time
were not also stable
because if it were unstable say if a
small deviation from ideal steadiness
produced a larger deviation let's say a
million a billion years later or a
trillion years later or 10 to the 10
years later
10 to 100 years later sorry
then
after after a certain number of Cycles
the state would no longer have the
steadiness property
and so
it had to be that a small deviation
would be reversed in due course that's
stability
and they worked hard to construct their
cosmological model to have that property
but stability is not enough if you want
to make the universe eternal
however stable the state is to small
changes a large nudge will eventually
happen
given the normal assumptions of
statistical mechanics and even quantum
mechanical tunneling would eventually
have the same effect
and so the steady state
would degenerate degenerate into the far
larger realm of states that evolve with
time into other states
thus violating the principle
so the the perfect cosmological
principle would have required the
quantum state of the universe to be
exquisitely
pruned
to eliminate
what Bryce DeWitt called the Maverick
universes that would evolve to violate
the principle at any time in the future
the specialness of that state
in the view of the opponents of the
steady state Theory
was just
creationism
the entire Eternal universe created all
at once in a state finally crafted to
give the appearance of an evolving
textured mixture of structure and
randomness
but actually all along
wreaked to conform to a certain ideal
throughout its infinite extent
so here we have the proponents of two
rival theories each accusing the others
of
in effect creationism
while other people were delighted that
their favorite Theory brought meaning as
they saw it
back into physics
into the universe
but this was all misconceived
everyone was simply assuming that all
fundamental explanations had to be in
the form prescribed by the prevailing
conception
possibly with the addendum of the
perfect cosmological principle
now it is possible to object to the
whole idea of principles in nature in
that sense
laws about laws can't we confine
ourselves to laws about phenomena
is it possible to restrict
science to those laws and reject laws
about laws
well
um
here's an object lesson
the principle of the conservation of
energy started out as a mere law about
phenomena in fact less than the law it
was merely a mathematical theorem of
Newtonian mechanics
initially that that just for a system of
particles moving in space without
friction and with elastic collisions the
quantity half MV squared
summed over all the particles is a
constant
We Now call that the kinetic energy of
the system
but the theorem
was known for centuries before the
concept of energy was even conceived
and it wasn't necessary at that time
in the meantime people realized then
that if you add that quantity to what we
now call the gravitational potential
energy
which is minus gm1 M2 over r squared
then the result is a constant even if
they're gravitating particles but it
still won't be true if there's friction
for example
but now that's a theorem of Newton's
laws of motion and gravity
still has strictly no more content than
those laws themselves in fact less
and it applies only when they are when
those laws are the full explanation of
what is happening
every prediction of Newton's theories
can be made without any reference to
energy
without even knowing of the existence of
energy or of its conservation
and in particular
those theorems predict nothing about the
content of undiscovered laws of physics
so that and they didn't call it energy
yet but if they had that energy would
not have been the energy that we know
nor is its constancy under those
theorems the conservation law that we
know
but then
in the 19th century
after count rumford's experiments
on Canon
that got hot when they were being
drilled out
people guessed
that if you add a further term to that
Newtonian scheme of summing half MV
squared and gm1 M2 over r
minus that you you can add
any and you can um
you can also add the Newtonian work done
and if you add to that an expression for
the Heat
normalized with suitable units then the
total will now be conserved even if
there is friction
and now
you have something that isn't a theorem
it's not deduced from laws of motion or
indeed anything
it's Allure physics in its own right
the law of the conservation of energy
and
indeed it couldn't have been deduced
because the laws of notion that underlie
frictional processes
we're still unknown at the time
in fact I'm not sure they're known today
but if they are they're quantum
mechanical
and at that point
people tweaked
they realized
that this new law now
to make sense
had to be respected by even by as yet
unknown forces and unknown substances
it was a law about laws
the principle of the conservation of
energy and that is exactly where the
term energy was invented
so the key that's the normal
conservation of energy
expressed with this in mind
and the key word there is not energy
it's every
and when the theory of electromagnetism
was later invented it did indeed conform
to this principle
even though electromagnetism hadn't a
theory of electromagnetism also was not
known at the time when the principle was
invented
furthermore
thermodynamics was born with several
further principles about heat and work
and temperature and a new quantity
entropy
and none of those principles were
deduced from laws of motion in fact many
attempts have been made in the century
and a half or so
since the inauguration of the
thermodynamics to establish a connection
between
between those laws and laws of motion or
somehow to express thermodynamics within
the prevailing conception
and none have been satisfactory
they all involve fudges such as coarse
graining and infinite ensembles
and
even the exact distinction between work
and Heat
remains elusive to this day
then of course still later the 20th
century in the early study of
radioactive beta Decay when physicists
added up the kinetic energies and the MC
squared energies in radioactive decays
and finding that they didn't add up
to a constant
powerly and Fermi could guess that there
was just a hitherto unknown particle the
neutrino
for whose existence at first
the only evidence was that principle
and again
that version of the conservation of
energy couldn't possibly regard it as a
theorem
whose premises were the neutrinos laws
of motion and interaction because those
laws were not yet known
it was just predicted
that once they were known they would be
found to obey the principles of quantum
mechanics which by now included the
principle of the conservation of energy
and so they did
and
that prediction was an indispensable
guide to discovering those laws at all
so the rule
of restricting science to laws about
phenomena and rejecting laws about laws
is untenable
note
that that rule
is itself a principle
the anti-principle principle
and as we've just seen
it's
false
more generally I think the whole purpose
of theoretical science is to explain the
world
the physical world and therefore the
sole Criterion by which theories ought
to be judged
is their explanatory power
this rules out having preferences
between modes of explanation preference
is that if if those preferences are
independent of how good the explanations
are that should be what counts the only
thing that counts
so just as
a scientific theory about phenomena
is much more than just an instrument of
prediction of those phenomena
much more than just a compressed summary
of them
but is an explanation of them
so a principle of nature is not just a
statement of shared properties among
theories
it is an explanation of those properties
now the prevailing conception
is a principle too isn't it
and
I believe it's just as false
as I'll explain in a moment
so
what other principles of nature might be
true aside from those of thermodynamics
that I've mentioned well both quantum
theory and relativity
are partly principles in addition to
making direct predictions about
phenomena they also assert that all
other laws of nature
including each other
conform to certain principles for
certain principles such as the principle
that laws are formulated in terms of
geometrical objects in the case of
general relativity
and in quantum theory the principle of
unitarity
and
as those two examples illustrate we we
shouldn't expect there to be a rigid
hierarchy of principles with ordinary
laws being subordinate to principles
but we should expect
that the immense explanatory power of
some of our theories of our best
theories
implies that if they are true of some
physical systems they must be true of
all of them I think it was Feynman who
called this in the case of quantum
theory the totalitarian property of
quantum theory
which
um
I I think Bryce DeWitt proved the same
thing and I think independently that
that if any system in the universe is
governed by quantum theory then no
system that could interact with that one
could obey classical laws of motion
relativity isn't quite as totalitarian
as quantum theory but its principles do
seem to be inconsistent with those of
quantum theories so presumably one or
both of them must be superseded
something that we couldn't know
unless we regarded those two theories as
principles
now
for example they might just apply to
different phenomena
now the way in which do it in particular
proved
the totalitarian property
I'm not sure how Feynman did it is quite
significant from my present perspective
he used the so-called uncertainty
principle of quantum mechanics horribly
misnamed
and he assumed for the sake of argument
that it did only apply to Quantum
systems and that classical objects could
exist in nature too and could interact
with some Quantum system
and then he showed by an ingenious
set of arguments
that by making certain measurements one
could violate the uncertainty principle
not just for the combined system but
even within the quantum system
so loosely speaking quantum theory
either applies to everything or to
nothing
and the reason that that mode of proof
is significant to me now
is that it uses the uncertainty
principle
in the form
such and such a class of tasks is
impossible
and
if a certain physical object is possible
the classical object then a further
process would be possible that would
lead to a contradiction
and therefore if the principle is true
the classical object isn't possible
he expressed the proof in the prevailing
conception
but it's barely used as such
you see
um
saying that a given task is impossible
in the sense that the uncertainty
principle does
means that it not just that it doesn't
happen but that it can't be caused to
happen by anything
can't be caused with the help of
anything else even things not explicitly
referred to
things not yet known
and that's the core of the totalitarian
proof
so a while ago
I proposed a new mode of explanation
that Philip referred to as constructive
theory or rather a theory called
Constructor Theory which I hope will
incorporate this new mode of explanation
which is intended
eventually to
supersede the prevailing conception
though the two are inter-translatable in
many cases
the first principle of constructive
theory is this
the laws of physics are expressible
entirely in terms of statements about
which physical Transformations it's
possible to cause to happen
and which
are impossible to cause
and why
so this is about transformations
that are caused by something
some agent which is itself not specified
that any agent
except that this agent must itself be
possible
and there's a condition that the agent
retain its ability to cause the
transformation again otherwise it's only
partly an agent and partly a patient
a chemical catalyst is an example of
such an agent
it causes chemical reactions but does
not participate in them by the way we're
told in elementary chemistry classes
that it doesn't cause
chemical reactions it just changes their
speed but that is not the case
um so the heat engine is also
such an agent it converts things to have
different temperatures and so on but
it's it itself stays the same so as a
computer
we call these agents generically
Constructors
and by possible to cause we mean
possible with arbitrary accuracy that is
you give me an Epsilon and if a task is
possible you give me an Epsilon and
someone could design a Constructor which
causes that task to happen with accuracy
if silent or better
and impossible means that
the laws of physics
exclude the possibility that anyone
could ever produce such a design or the
laws of physics rule out the existence
of such an agent such a Constructor
so there are no probabilities in the
Constructor theoretic conception of the
world task tasks that look probabilistic
like building a fair roulette wheel
are expressed in terms of preparing it
in a specified quantum mechanical state
with a given density Matrix for example
so while the prevailing conception
seeks to distinguish at a fundamental
level what happens from what doesn't
happen
in which case
possible and impossible are just a
manner of speaking about certain
approximations or about our ignorance
but in Constructor Theory it's the other
way around the laws of nature are about
what's possible and impossible in the
sense I've just described and what
actually happens is in general an
emergent consequence of that sometimes
it can be calculated
um in which case
The Constructor Theory and the
prevailing conception are equivalent
but sometimes it can't be calculated
either because it's intractable or for
some more profound reason and in those
cases
constructive theory can express exact
laws that are inaccessible in the
prevailing conception
one important case of the latter are
initial conditions of the universe
they are in Constructor Theory they are
supposed to be incalculable consequences
of laws about what's possible and what's
impossible
and that is so reasonable
as I said you wouldn't expect there to
be a fundamental law
specifying the state
at any other time
than the initial time such as today
including all the locations of all the
cows in Oxfordshire that were auctioned
today
you wouldn't expect the state of those
cows to have fundamental significance
why expect it of the initial state
especially as it
this violates
symmetries that exist everywhere else in
physics
and with that construct a theoretic
perspective
we can can begin to notice that there
are already other principles of nature
that are already known but are not
usually acknowledged as such nor even
acknowledged as being part of physics at
all
simply because they don't conform to the
prevailing conception
there's the principles of the theory of
computation for example
the distinction between computable and
non-computable functions
doesn't refer to what the computer is
made of
we expect it to be the same for any make
or model or technology of general
purpose computer
even ones using laws of physics or
materials not yet discovered
so it's a principle
difficult or impossible to express in
the prevailing conception
but
in some work that my colleague Kiara
maletto and I have done
we have shown that there is a beautiful
expression of this principle in
constructive theory
and this is in the context of a full
Constructor theoretic information theory
in which processes like computation and
quantities like information
are characterized in elegant exact terms
that is
in constructive theoretic terms in in
terms of what classes of physical
transformation it's possible or
impossible to cause
this new theory of information
which I commend to you all
um
unlike Shannon's existing Theory
naturally includes Quantum information
and predicts all its strange and
distinctive properties
such as the impossibility of cloning a
Quantum the information the quantum
State and the famous
unpredictability of quantum measurement
despite its deterministic law of motion
and marletto has also used to construct
a theory in a biological application
to characterize what precisely it is
about the laws of physics that permits
the origin and evolution of life
among other things
the Apparently non-physics concept of
the appearance of design which was
coined I think by Richard Dawkins
has an exact definition in constructive
theoretic physics
the result is that regardless of the
so-called fine-tuning coincidences in
the constants of physics the laws of
physics do not in fact have to have
and do not in fact have
the appearance of design for causing
life
the laws of thermodynamics which I
mentioned already have some existing
constructed theoretic formulations
like you can't build a perpetual motion
machine as a first kind or of the second
kind and so on but these are considered
vague and hand-waving
in the prevailing conception
um
another example you can't convert heat
entirely into work without side effects
but if this further work by marletto
pans out
it would revolutionize the foundations
of thermodynamics because with slightly
different versions of the first and
second laws
from the ones we know it would Express
those known hand waving
formulations exactly
and would provide an exact
characterization of the distinction
between work and heat and hence of
entropy
without coarse graining without
distinction between macrostates and
microstates without ensembles
just construct a theory
the basic reason
that constructive theory
can work that sort of magic
is that it abstracts away the
Constructor
like the theory of catalysis in
chemistry which is another as I said
another example of a of an existing
constructive theoretic Theory it's not
this
process that is declared to be possible
or impossible in constructively it's
this
just that
so the Constructor which is the the um
usually the
um
the macroscopic
part of the process is abstracted away
and this is what makes Constructor
Theory a natural vehicle for expressing
scale invariant laws and substrate
invariant laws about quantities like
information and heat and work
exactly
like the perfect cosmological principle
which had to be developed into the
sophisticated steady-state Theory
construct a theory will have to be
developed quite a bit more before we
derive testable predictions from it
but unlike steady state Theory
Constructor theory has already provided
a significant unification and
illumination of fundamental matters in
in diverse areas of physics
and Beyond as I said
and I think this already makes it a
substantial step
towards the unity
that Dennis was looking for
okay thanks
[Applause]
and so to Mark the closing of this
wonderful series of lectures have been
asked to present these two
assistant